h1. Welcome to BaseApp

BaseApp is a default Ruby on Rails project that kick-starts your next Rails project.

Read the next paragraph for a quickstart. Head over to "http://baseapp.org":http://baseapp.org for more detailed documentation or "http://baseapp.lighthouseapp.com":http://baseapp.lighthouseapp.com to report bugs and request features.

h2. Quickstart

Ok, before you dive in :-)

These 6 simple steps are the essentials to get you smoothly up and running...

# Create your own config/database.yml (you can copy one of the sample files in there and edit it)
# Edit the config/config.yml file to suit your needs
# Open a shell and run @rake db:migrate@ to create your database and setup the prepared defaults. 
# Start your server with @./script/server@
# Open up "http://localhost:3000":http://localhost:3000 and login with username 'admin' and password 'yippeekayea'.

h2. Configatron vs. Settings

Previously, site settings were stored in the database. Now, you have two options for storing configuration settings. 

1. Configatron config/config.yml

All default configuration options that are not 'user changeable' should go in config/config.yml. This uses the Configatron gem (frozen in vendor/gems). 

To retrieve the site name you may use 'configatron.site_name' everywhere in your code. 

2. Settings in database

It's still possible to store user changeable settings in the database model Setting. 

Note: As long as there are no Settings in the database, the 'Settings' tab for the administrator is hidden. Once you add a Setting to the database through a migration (or otherwise), the Settings tab will show up. 

h2. Features

* Layout
** Tabs
** Global links
** Optional sidebar
** Notice, warning and error flash messages
** Both a default stylesheet as well as a 'clean' one are included for easy layout development.
* Default dashboard page
* Administration panel where you can:
** Manage users (add, delete, purge, suspend, activate, send new passwords)
** Manage settings 
* User authentication, with password recovery and login recovery and account activation (by email)
* User Profiles:
** Location, Website, Full name fields by default, easily extendible.
** Gravatar for avatar support
* Very useful Rails plugin available:
** restful_authentication
** acts_as_state_machine
** asset_packager
* Multi-stage deployments according to the D-TAP system (Development, Testing, Acceptance, Production). If you don't want to use, production is the default deployment option. "more info":http://weblog.jamisbuck.org/2007/7/23/capistrano-multistage

h2. Features, bugs and development!

BaseApp is open source software and relies on your contributions to grow! We have some useful utilities that may help you out.

* "http://baseapp.org":http://baseapp.org

The BaseApp website provides you with up-to-date development information and the latest news regarding BaseApp.
	
* "http://github.com/ariejan/baseapp":http://github.com/ariejan/baseapp

GitHub always contains the latest BaseApp code. Fork your own development branch here if you wish to contribute code. 

Pull requests should be send to 'ariejan' to include them in the main BaseApp code base.
	
* "http://baseapp.lighthouseapp.com":http://baseapp.lighthouseapp.com

Bug reports and feature requests should be posted in LightHouse. 
	
Bugs always have priority over new features! But, you're free to help out with whatever you want. 

h2. Credits

BaseAPP is developed by "Kabisa ICT":http://kabisa.nl, "Ariejan de Vroom":http://ariejan.net and a whole bunch of "cool contributors":http://github.com/ariejan/baseapp/network. 

BaseApp is released to the public under the MIT license.
